


Horten IX (Ho 229)
X-Plane ACF model by Uwe F. Reitter
 
 
BASIC POH:
 
PREPARATION:

Instruments show all metric as being german WW-2. But all important values can be displayed
also imperial by hitting the "Imperial" button at the right hand panel.

Assign joystick switches for pitch trim (keep it trimmed!) and 3d cockpit mouselook.
Witch 3d cockpit mouselook you will toggle between 2D and 3D panel.
By use of the 2D panel you have ALL buttons and instruments on 1 single screen at 1 time.
 
Choose between Jumo 004B, 004D and 004E engines with the fictive instrument in the right instrument panel.
The prototype flights february 1945 took place with 004B-2 engines (900 kilopond / 1,983 lb thrust)
This ACF model default is Jumo 004C (1050 kilopond / 2,362 lb thrust). The Jumo 004D engines were ready
at the very end of the war, but they never gone airborne.
 
If you want to use engines in an original WW-2 manner always run up the engines especially slowly
to 6000-7000 RPM. Otherwise the original engines overheated and were weakened by cavitation
in the compressor stage. So in any flight situation where you can expect an immediate need of full thrust
never decrease the RPM smaller than 6000 RPM. (no real need to do so in the simulator)
 
TAKE OFF:
 
Set take-off trim to 65% or 9.5 DEG. Set flaps to det 1.
Hold the aircraft stationary until 7000 RPM. Then release the brakes and give full throttle.
Pull stick gently while speeding up to keep rear wheels grounded.
Rotate up at 200 kmh (fully laden, no bombs) or at 220 kmh (fully laden + external loads)
After becoming airborne, immediately ease slightly stick forward to gain the optimum climbing speed,
climb never more slowly than 475 kmh true at 0 m  to 2000 m altitude .
 
LANDING:

Retract gun sight (button "Visier wgklappen") or shift view a little aside (arrow keys).
The best approach speed is 230 - 250 kmh with flap det 1 and elevator trim about 65% up.
Shortly before reaching the airfield boundary, decrease the glide angle a little and
reduce the speed to about 180 kmh. Then flatten out and touch down normally at 150 kmh.
Deploy speedbrakes and if needed deploy parachute.
Only apply wheelbrakes when all wheels have touched the ground.
 
COMBAT:

Check the CG (center of gravity) instrument. General handling is save for all possible loads,
but for dogfight, external loads shall be dropped and the cg should be in the green area.
Never risk a stall when the cg is in the red area. This results in total loss of control.
For all in-flight situations keep RUDER-STAB engaged. The original Ho229 had
artificial rudder stab, esencially needed for all weapon use. Disengage RUDER-STAB only
to experience the weak natural yaw stability of the airframe. Be then prepared to use heavy rudder
at low speed and strong manovers.

Non ww2 authentic: Hit button "Ziel anzeigen" at the gun sight. You can parse now through all
other planes in your air space by the index target function. Their relative altitude (left),
the relative direction and their distance (right) will be displayed inside the gun sight.
The display range is +-300 meters for the altitude and 15,000 meters for the distance.

AUTO PILOT:

The left wooden clip-board is a disguised moving map and handles the use of the auto-pilot.
Select a desired heading with the knob next to the compass instrument.
Secect Ein(On) to set it standby. Hit HDG(heading) and HOLD(altitude) to engage those functions.
Select AP will now make the plane hold the current altitude and follow the set heading.
To change the flight level adjust the altitude with the knob next to the altimeter.
Then select a desired rate of climb with the knob at the VVI instruments.
Hitting V/S now makes the plane climb or decent to the new altitude and hold it when reached.
3-Axis auto-pilots were present at the end of ww2.


RADIO NAVIGATION AND FLIGHT MANAGING COMPUTER FMS:

The right wooden clip-board is a disguised FMS and FUEL calculator.
The bearing indication inside the compass instrument is not WW-2 authentic.

Tune in an ADF or/and VOR frequency and the direction of ADF1/VOR1 will be displayed in the
compass instrument. ADF/VOR 1&2 will be displayed at the left clipboard.

If the radio is tuned in a airfields glideslope frequency the glideslope indicator (WW-2 authentic)
is a great aid for landing with limited sight being unexperienced pilot.

If you decide to do (not WW-2 authentic) GPS operations
Press on the FMS clipboard INIT then APT (or VOR or NDB)
and input the ICAO-code of your next waypoint or destination airport.
You can also input a desired flight level for each waypoint.
Append waypoints by pressing next and repeat the input procedure.
With LD and SA you can save and load your FMS inputs.
The waypont route is displayed at the map-clipboard.


























